# data-analytics
# The Economic Impact of Coronavirus in Sub- Saharan Africa
# ABSTRACT
This project analyzes the economic impact of COVID-19 in Sub-Saharan Africa by predicting how concerned are the people in Africa about paying their expenses for the next six months due to COVID-19, based on different attributes like age, gender, monthly need, monthly income, employment type. Also, job loss due to COVID-19, the kind of aid people are receiving or any loan they are currently paying now or any new loan they have taken to pay the expenses due to COVID-19 , if the person is responsible for the household responsibility , mobile money activity are also considered in the estimation of the economic expense concern in Africa. Additionally, what people are thinking about the priority action for the Government are also important in estimating the expense concern of people of Africa. Also, we identify some patterns and rules in the data that can help the government in prioritizing their upcoming decisions.
The data mining analysis has been done on the dataset provided as part of the survey of Economic Impact of COVID-19 in Sub-Saharan Africa conducted by GeoPoll and published on the HUMANITARIAN DATA EXCHANGE(HDX) website. As a part of the supervised data-mining process, we have used different classifiers model to predict the rating provided by the person in terms of 1 to 5 for their expense concern rating (starting from no concerned at all to extremely concerned). From the model output result, we have noticed that majority of the people have expressed their concern with the highest rating due to COVID-19 and there are few people who have expressed concern in medium range. This finding addresses the issue that majority of people in Sub-Saharan Africa are affected due to the pandemic and are highly concerned about the expenses for next six months. We have also noticed from our classifier models that age, monthly income, concern of expenses of the current month, monthly need, if the person concerned is responsible for the household expenses, expected duration of the time in terms of the ability to pay for basic expenses like rent or food , aid received, the source of money for expenses are in in form of loan or credits and if the person is able to deposit mobile money – these attributes are most important in predicting the concern expense rating for the upcoming six months.
From the unsupervised learning using association, we have found that few of the frequent item sets are: Aid not received, Has Expense Responsibility of the household, Job lost due to COVID-19, More concerned about expenses than before COVID-19. Also, few of the rules with high confidence generated are {Aid Not Received <-> Has Expense Responsibility}, {Aid Not Received <-> Job lost due to Covid-19}. Most of the generated rules from the dataset are the combination of above rules. Although the rules generated have no strong association, we have found some important patterns in the data. Hence, we can say from the rule findings that most employed people have lost their jobs due to COVID-19 and these people have expense responsibility of their household and had not received any aid from any organization.
# INTRODUCTION
As COVID-19 continues to spread around the world leaving economic upheaval in its wake, we have focused on analyzing the economic impact of Sub-Saharan Africa which will eventually help the concerned government to build a road plan. Specifically, government can introduce more aids and instantiate laid off workers from traditional job markets to a post-pandemic job markets specially for those people who are highly concerned about carrying out their expenses for the upcoming months.
Here, as we are using supervised learning to classify people of Sub-Saharan Africa in terms of their expression of expense concern due to COVID-19 for the upcoming months based on the social factors, the most important features which have been used for predicting the concern expense rating will also provide important insights for the government while taking consideration of any new initiative to address the needy people and build the economy.
We use association rule mining of unsupervised learning to identify the most frequent attributes and the common rules observed in the dataset. These frequent features can help to target the people who should be the primary focus from the concerned Government’s program in the process of rebuilding the economy in post COVID-19 time. Our findings from the classifier model and the association rule mining can contribute to help the government of local province in Sub-Saharan Africa as well as country wise to construct their economic rebuilding roadmaps in the post pandemic time and also provide them important insights to be used for their different aid programs as well targeting the correct people.
We believe that post COVID-19, it is very important to address specific people who are in mostly need of economic help to instantiate the economy and this data-mining project will be useful in that aspect. Finding a solution to the ongoing crisis makes this project interesting. Developing a model to find the economic concern of a person based on social factors of the person and using rule mining to find out the association between these factors makes our project novel.
In the following section, we will be going to perform two data-mining tasks: (a) for supervised learning , we will build the classifier model to estimate the rating which is expressed on the scale of 1 to 5 for the concern of expenses in upcoming six months and (b) unsupervised learning – we will use association rule mining on different combination of the available features (with different support and confidence values) and identify association rules of various socio-economic factors. Here we have not used any clustering algorithm as most of our features in the dataset are categorical and we feel that clustering will not be that meaningful to interpret some useful insights from the data.
For both the algorithms we start by considering all features and proceed by eliminating the variables that may not be important to us. The detailed description of type of variables used is mentioned in the corresponding algorithm implementation section.
